report/QUICKSTART.md, before:

# MCP Stack Quickstart

Naming convention in production runtime:
- Containers: `ai-mcp-*`
- Supabase project: `ai-mcp-archon`
- Managed MCP servers: `mcpx-*`
- Image/version matrix: `<STACK_ROOT>/infra/versions.env`

## 1) Start Infra

Prerequisite for docs-mcp vector search:
- Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` (or another supported embedding provider key) in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env`.
- Optional override: `DOCS_MCP_EMBEDDING_MODEL` in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env`.
- If `DOCS_MCP_EMBEDDING_MODEL` is omitted and `OPENAI_API_KEY` exists, stack scripts default to `text-embedding-3-small`.

Full stack (Qdrant + Surreal + Archon + Docs MCP Web UI):

```bash
cd <STACK_ROOT>
task infra:up PROFILE=full
```

Full stack plus Neo4j graph runtime:

```bash
task infra:up PROFILE=full-graph
```

Surreal profile details:
- Runs local `surrealdb` (`18083`) + Surrealist (`18082`) + two MCP layers:
  - `surrealmcp-compat` frontend on `18080` (recommended MCP endpoint)
  - backend `surrealmcp` on `18084`
- SurrealDB is pinned to `2.3.x` in `infra/versions.env` for current SurrealMCP websocket compatibility.
- Surrealist auto-loads a managed connection from a generated runtime file:
  - `<STACK_ROOT>/tmp/surrealist-instance.json`
  - generated by `stack_infra.sh` from values in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env` (or safe defaults)
- Default local DB auth in this stack: `root` / `root` (local dev only).

Core-only (Qdrant backend + dashboard):

```bash
task infra:up PROFILE=core
```

Docs UI only profile (plus qdrant):

```bash
task infra:up PROFILE=docs
```

Runtime env files generated by scripts:
- `<STACK_ROOT>/tmp/ai-mcp-infra.env` (docs-mcp provider settings)
- `<STACK_ROOT>/tmp/ai-mcp-archon.env` (archon runtime settings)

Archon settings sync (automatic):
- `stack_infra.sh up archon` and `stack_infra.sh up full` now push RAG/provider settings to Archon credentials API after health check.
- Managed keys: `LLM_PROVIDER`, `MODEL_CHOICE`, `EMBEDDING_PROVIDER`, `EMBEDDING_MODEL`, `USE_AGENTIC_RAG`, `USE_HYBRID_SEARCH`, `USE_RERANKING`, `USE_CONTEXTUAL_EMBEDDINGS`.
- Override values in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env` using:
  - `ARCHON_LLM_PROVIDER`
  - `ARCHON_MODEL_CHOICE`
  - `ARCHON_EMBEDDING_PROVIDER`
  - `ARCHON_EMBEDDING_MODEL`
  - `ARCHON_USE_AGENTIC_RAG`
  - `ARCHON_USE_HYBRID_SEARCH`
  - `ARCHON_USE_RERANKING`
  - `ARCHON_USE_CONTEXTUAL_EMBEDDINGS`
- Default model if unset: `gpt-5.2`.

Filesystem mounts for Docker MCP services (read-only):
- Host root `/` is mounted as `/hostfs` inside MCP containers.
- Host `/Users` is mounted as `/Users` for direct-path indexing (no translation needed for your repos).
- Override sources in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env`:
  - `MCP_HOST_FS_ROOT=/`
  - `MCP_HOST_FS_USERS=/Users`

Example local indexing path for docs-mcp:
- `file://<TS_REPO>/README.md`
- For non-`/Users` paths, use `/hostfs` mapping inside the containerized tool flow.

Archon file ingestion note:
- `POST /api/documents/upload` rejects some MIME types (`application/octet-stream`, `application/json`).
- For `.toml` / `.json` uploads, set explicit multipart content-type to `text/plain`, or convert to Markdown/text before upload.

## 2) Apply MCP Profile

Recommended default:

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=core AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

Maximum context profile:

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=full AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

Optional graph-enabled profiles:

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=core-code-graph AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=full-code-graph AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=core-neo4j AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=full-neo4j AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=full-graph AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

One-command activate (infra + profile together):

```bash
task profile:activate PROFILE=full
```

One-command activate with docs UI but core MCP profile:

```bash
task profile:activate PROFILE=core-docs
```

Disable managed MCP profile:

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=none AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

Global dynamic MCP behavior:
- `mcpx-qdrant` automatically maps current repo to a collection (`proj-<repo-slug>`).
- `mcpx-lsp` automatically picks workspace root from current directory and chooses Python vs TypeScript LSP by repo markers.
- `mcpx-code-graph` optionally uses current workspace root for structural graph analysis (`core-code-graph` / `full-code-graph`).
- `mcpx-neo4j` is read-only by default and targets local Neo4j+APOC (`core-neo4j` / `full-neo4j` / `full-graph`).
- This keeps global agent configs project-agnostic.

Optional per-repo overrides:
- Add `.mcp-stack.env` to repository root (only if you need special behavior).
- Template: `<STACK_ROOT>/configs/mcp-stack.env.example`
- Parsing mode: strict `KEY=VALUE` (no shell execution).

## 3) Check Status

```bash
task infra:status
task quality:doctor PROFILE=full
task quality:versions:show
task quality:versions:check
codex mcp list
CODEX_HOME="$HOME/.codex-mcp-eval" codex mcp list
claude mcp list
opencode mcp list
```

Upgrade flow (digest-pinned images):

```bash
task quality:versions:check
task quality:versions:refresh
task infra:up PROFILE=full
task quality:doctor PROFILE=full
```

UI endpoints in `full` profile:
- `http://127.0.0.1:6333/dashboard/` (Qdrant)
- `http://127.0.0.1:17474` (Neo4j Browser, when using Neo4j-enabled profiles)
- `http://127.0.0.1:13737` (Archon UI)
- `http://127.0.0.1:18082` (Surrealist)
- `http://127.0.0.1:18083/rpc` (SurrealDB RPC endpoint)
- `http://127.0.0.1:16280` (Docs MCP UI)

## 4) Stop Infra

```bash
task infra:down PROFILE=full
```

## 5) Restore Everything

```bash
task profile:restore
```

Detailed runbook:
- `<STACK_ROOT>/report/FINAL_PRODUCTION_RECOMMENDATION.md`

Legacy compatibility:
- Direct `scripts/*.sh` commands remain available but are considered internal runtime entrypoints.

Commit message:

feat(stack): integrate full graph profile and chroma ui

report/QUICKSTART.md, after:

# MCP Stack Quickstart

Naming convention in production runtime:
- Containers: `ai-mcp-*`
- Supabase project: `ai-mcp-archon`
- Managed MCP servers: `mcpx-*`
- Image/version matrix: `<STACK_ROOT>/infra/versions.env`

## 1) Start Infra

Prerequisite for docs-mcp vector search:
- Set `OPENAI_API_KEY` (or another supported embedding provider key) in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env`.
- Optional override: `DOCS_MCP_EMBEDDING_MODEL` in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env`.
- If `DOCS_MCP_EMBEDDING_MODEL` is omitted and `OPENAI_API_KEY` exists, stack scripts default to `text-embedding-3-small`.

Full stack (Qdrant + Chroma + Chroma UI + Neo4j + Surreal + Archon + Docs MCP Web UI):

```bash
cd <STACK_ROOT>
task infra:up PROFILE=full
```

Legacy compatibility alias for graph-enabled full stack:

```bash
task infra:up PROFILE=full-graph
```

Surreal profile details:
- Runs local `surrealdb` (`18083`) + Surrealist (`18082`) + two MCP layers:
  - `surrealmcp-compat` frontend on `18080` (recommended MCP endpoint)
  - backend `surrealmcp` on `18084`
- SurrealDB is pinned to `2.3.x` in `infra/versions.env` for current SurrealMCP websocket compatibility.
- Surrealist auto-loads a managed connection from a generated runtime file:
  - `<STACK_ROOT>/tmp/surrealist-instance.json`
  - generated by `stack_infra.sh` from values in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env` (or safe defaults)
- Default local DB auth in this stack: `root` / `root` (local dev only).

Core-only (Qdrant backend + dashboard):

```bash
task infra:up PROFILE=core
```

Docs UI only profile (plus qdrant):

```bash
task infra:up PROFILE=docs
```

Runtime env files generated by scripts:
- `<STACK_ROOT>/tmp/ai-mcp-infra.env` (docs-mcp provider settings)
- `<STACK_ROOT>/tmp/ai-mcp-archon.env` (archon runtime settings)

Archon settings sync (automatic):
- `stack_infra.sh up archon` and `stack_infra.sh up full` now push RAG/provider settings to Archon credentials API after health check.
- Managed keys: `LLM_PROVIDER`, `MODEL_CHOICE`, `EMBEDDING_PROVIDER`, `EMBEDDING_MODEL`, `USE_AGENTIC_RAG`, `USE_HYBRID_SEARCH`, `USE_RERANKING`, `USE_CONTEXTUAL_EMBEDDINGS`.
- Override values in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env` using:
  - `ARCHON_LLM_PROVIDER`
  - `ARCHON_MODEL_CHOICE`
  - `ARCHON_EMBEDDING_PROVIDER`
  - `ARCHON_EMBEDDING_MODEL`
  - `ARCHON_USE_AGENTIC_RAG`
  - `ARCHON_USE_HYBRID_SEARCH`
  - `ARCHON_USE_RERANKING`
  - `ARCHON_USE_CONTEXTUAL_EMBEDDINGS`
- Default model if unset: `gpt-5.2`.

Filesystem mounts for Docker MCP services (read-only):
- Host root `/` is mounted as `/hostfs` inside MCP containers.
- Host `/Users` is mounted as `/Users` for direct-path indexing (no translation needed for your repos).
- Override sources in `<STACK_ROOT>/.secrets.env`:
  - `MCP_HOST_FS_ROOT=/`
  - `MCP_HOST_FS_USERS=/Users`

Example local indexing path for docs-mcp:
- `file://<TS_REPO>/README.md`
- For non-`/Users` paths, use `/hostfs` mapping inside the containerized tool flow.

Archon file ingestion note:
- `POST /api/documents/upload` rejects some MIME types (`application/octet-stream`, `application/json`).
- For `.toml` / `.json` uploads, set explicit multipart content-type to `text/plain`, or convert to Markdown/text before upload.

## 2) Apply MCP Profile

Recommended default:

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=core AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

Maximum context profile:

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=full AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

Optional profile variants (use only when you intentionally want to trim one graph add-on from `full`):

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=core-code-graph AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=full-code-graph AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=core-neo4j AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=full-neo4j AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
task profile:apply PROFILE=full-graph AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

One-command activate (infra + profile together):

```bash
task profile:activate PROFILE=full
```

One-command activate with docs UI but core MCP profile:

```bash
task profile:activate PROFILE=core-docs
```

Disable managed MCP profile:

```bash
task profile:apply PROFILE=none AGENTS=codex,claude,opencode CODEX_TARGET=both
```

Global dynamic MCP behavior:
- `mcpx-qdrant` automatically maps current repo to a collection (`proj-<repo-slug>`).
- `mcpx-lsp` automatically picks workspace root from current directory and chooses Python vs TypeScript LSP by repo markers.
- `mcpx-code-graph` is part of `full` by default and uses current workspace root for structural analysis.
- `mcpx-neo4j` is part of `full` by default, read-only by default, and targets local Neo4j+APOC.
- This keeps global agent configs project-agnostic.

Optional per-repo overrides:
- Add `.mcp-stack.env` to repository root (only if you need special behavior).
- Template: `<STACK_ROOT>/configs/mcp-stack.env.example`
- Parsing mode: strict `KEY=VALUE` (no shell execution).

## 3) Check Status

```bash
task infra:status
task quality:doctor PROFILE=full
task quality:versions:show
task quality:versions:check
codex mcp list
CODEX_HOME="$HOME/.codex-mcp-eval" codex mcp list
claude mcp list
opencode mcp list
```

Upgrade flow (digest-pinned images):

```bash
task quality:versions:check
task quality:versions:refresh
task infra:up PROFILE=full
task quality:doctor PROFILE=full
```

UI endpoints in `full` profile:
- `http://127.0.0.1:6333/dashboard/` (Qdrant)
- `http://127.0.0.1:18110` (Chroma UI)
- `http://127.0.0.1:17474` (Neo4j Browser)
- `http://127.0.0.1:13737` (Archon UI)
- `http://127.0.0.1:18082` (Surrealist)
- `http://127.0.0.1:18083/rpc` (SurrealDB RPC endpoint)
- `http://127.0.0.1:16280` (Docs MCP UI)

## 4) Stop Infra

```bash
task infra:down PROFILE=full
```

## 5) Restore Everything

```bash
task profile:restore
```

Detailed runbook:
- `<STACK_ROOT>/report/FINAL_PRODUCTION_RECOMMENDATION.md`

Legacy compatibility:
- Direct `scripts/*.sh` commands remain available but are considered internal runtime entrypoints.
